docs(website): add GraphQL Serve docs (#1654)
aerogear/graphback: docs/graphqlserve/graphqlserve.md

---
id: graphqlserve
title: Running an API without code
sidebar_label: API without code
---

> With GraphQL Serve you can have a full featured [GraphQL CRUD](https://graphqlcrud.org/) API with subscriptions and data synchronization running in just a few seconds without writing a single line of code - all you need is a data model `.graphql` file.

Reviewer: Name with -. No strong opinion

Author: You mean `GraphQL-Serve`?

Reviewer 2: I prefer `GraphQL Serve` not `GraphQL-Serve` when using the full name like this.

Reviewer 2: Adding the hyphen looks strange.

Author: Yeap. Me too, I asked to see which name @wtrocki was referring too.

GraphQL Serve is a CLI tool that leverages the power of Graphback to generate a codeless Node.js GraphQL API complete with schema and CRUD resolvers and an in-memory MongoDB database.

## Installation

You can install `graphql-serve` globally with npm:

```shell

> npm i -g graphql-serve

Reviewer: For cli tools that do not have updates people recommend using npx. this way you will ensure that people using latest versions ( and we will get reliable stats about usage ;) )

Author: Do you see a section on usage with npx?

```

or with yarn:

```shell
yarn global add graphql-serve
```

## Usage

The bare minimum you need is a GraphQL file with your data models. Create a file called `Note.graphql` and add the following:

```graphql
""" @model """
type Note {
  id: ID!
  title: String!
  description: String
  likes: Int
}
```

The `@model` annotation indicates that `Note` is a data model and Graphback will generate resolvers, a CRUD service and data source for it. You can learn how to build more complex data models in [Data Model](../model/datamodel#Model).

### Running your codeless GraphQL server

To start your server, run the following command from the same directory as `Note.graphql`:

```shell

> gqlserve serve .

Reviewer: Let's add note name here. Dot can be confusing

```

This will start a GraphQL server on a random port using the data models we just added.

You can customise the directory of the data models:

```shell
gqlserve serve ./path/to/models
```

You can also specify where to load the data models from with a Glob pattern:

```shell

> gqlserve print-schema ./schema/**/*.graphql

Reviewer: Is that working for you?

Author: Yes. On latest master.

```

You can specify which port to start the server on:

```shell
$ gqlserve serve ./path/to/models --port 8080

Starting server...

Listening at: http://localhost:8080/graphql
```

### Enable Data Synchronization

> The gqlserve can also operate on data sync models. Under the hood this uses the [Data Sync](../datasync/intro.md) package. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphQL Serve can also operate on data sync models. Under the hood this uses the [Data Sync](../datasync/intro.md) package. 
```

> To enable data synchronization on, all we need to do is enable datasync capabilities on our models via the `@datasync` annotation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable data synchronization, all we need to do is enable datasync capabilities on our models via the `@datasync` annotation.
```
